Let's explore the exam blueprint.Let's take a closer look at the exam blueprint.
The AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner exam is intended for people who can demonstrate basic knowledge
of the AWS platform, the available services,their common use cases, architecture design principles,
account security, governance, and compliance.It validates your ability to explain the value
of the AWS Cloud.
So when we talk about the value,we mean the benefits and the advantages.
You also have to understand and explain the AWS shared responsibility model.
There is a shared security responsibility model between you and AWS.
You also have to understand security best practices,specifically IAM, or Identity and Access Management
security best practices.
You have to understand AWS Cloud costs
and billing practices,like how services like EC2 and Lambda are billed.
And you have to describe the core AWS services that fall under the compute, networking,
databases, and storage categories. And you also have to identify common use cases.

you've watched the "Introduction to AWS" course,
and you complete this course along with
all of the hands-on labs, quizzes, and practice exam.

There are actually 4 domain areas.
The first domain area is Cloud Concepts.
1-Cloud Concepts covers the AWS Cloud value proposition,cloud economics, and cloud architecture design principles.
And that sits right at 26%.So 26% of the questions will come from this category.

2-Next, we have the Technology category,
and this covers methods of deployments and operations,the global infrastructure,AWS services, and technology support.
And that sits right at 33%.

3-Next, we have Security and Compliance.Security and Compliance defines
the shared responsibility model,security, compliance concepts,and access management capabilities. And that sits right at 25%.

4-Next, we have Billing and Pricing.This covers comparing pricing models, account structures,
billing, pricing, and billing support resources.And that sits right at 16%.

As it stands today, a minimum passing score is 700,
which is like a 70 or a C,
but we're aiming for much higher than that
for students taking this course.
