introduce you to cloud computing.

Words like AI, big data, Internet of Things, 5G,and a lot of these terms don't make clear what they actually mean.The cloud is one of those terms.

What do you think about when you hear the term, the cloud?
 "You should migrate to the cloud,"or, "Your data is in the cloud," or, "You can work in the cloud."the cloud has nothing to do with white fluffy things
far away, somewhere in the sky.

When your data sets and applications live in the cloud,they're not somewhere in the wind.

***The cloud is a real place. Your data is stored somewhere. the cloud can really be servers anywhere in your data center or someone else's.
Servers are very powerful computers that handle your requests.

So whenever you access a simple website or an app or a complex web application, maybe one that has online ordering, there is a server
or many servers behind the scenes.

Now AWS has thousands and thousands of servers grouped together in what's called a data center.

When you use these servers, you can deliver your applications over the internet and that's essentially what cloud computing is.
The delivery of computing services over the internet. Think of it as a different way of storing data and sharing applications.
Instead of on your local machine or in your internal data center, you're using AWS' servers,
and AWS provides many high-level services to help you access and share your data and applications with others.

So you'll hear a category called compute. So there are compute services like EC2 and Lambda.

There are networking services. like  VPC and Direct Connect. 

Storage services-- like  S3 and EBS. 

Analytic services, like Athena and Redshift.

Development services-- like Cloud9 and CodeCommit.

And security services, like IAM and Macie,

and database services, like RDS and DynamoDB.


To maximize the use of their servers,AWS allows you to share a single server with other AWS customers through virtualization.
Now, virtualization is at the heart of cloud computing. Virtualization divides the hardware resources on 1 single physical server
into smaller units called virtual machines.

Each VM, or virtual machine, is its own little server complete with its own operating system, memory, storage,
networking access, and you have this VM all to yourself.

"Well, how do I use these VMs and how do I pay for them?"It's like your usage is placed on a meter.Think about a water meter or a gas meter
or an electric meter,cloud providers like AWS operate just like power companies.It's such a novel idea. Now you have on-demand and pay as you go.
When you pay only when you access the services and only for what you use.On-demand, you have no long-term commitments
or upfront payments, and with pay as you go, you pay by the hour or sometimes down to the second for only what you use.

Going into the exam, make sure you remember the categories for each service. For example, Lambda and EC2 are compute services.
We'll learn more about all of the different services and categories later.