the advantages of cloud computing.we learned cloud usage is on-demand and pay-as-you-go.Now, there are several benefits to this approach.
Many companies either don't have the money or don't want to spend the money,time, and resources on building and maintaining their own data center.
They just rent from AWS.And literally at the click of a button,they can stand up servers.

1- So, the first benefit is you're able to go global in minutes.
AWS has servers all over the world and you can easily deploy your applications to multiple regions at the click of a button.

T2-he second is you stop spending money running and maintaining data centers.So you're able to focus on projects that differentiate your business,
not the infrastructure like servers.You also benefit from massive economies of scale.
AWS, they actually aggregate usage from hundreds of thousands of customers so they achieve higher economies of scale,
and then they pass those volume discounts onto you,which gives you a lower pay-as-you-go price.

Next, you have increased speed and agility,
which essentially means a faster time to market.With cloud computing,you have new resources available at the click of a button.
So, from weeks to now just minutes,and that allows you to innovate more quickly and deliver your applications faster.

Next, you're able to stop guessing about capacity.
Now in the past, companies ended up sitting on expensive idle resources or dealing with limited capacity.Now, your capacity is matched exactly to your demand.
And you're able to trade capital expenses for variable expenses.
So, what does that mean?
Instead of having to invest heavily in data centers and servers upfront,before you know how you're going to use them,
with the cloud, you pay for what you use instead of having to make those huge upfront investments.

So now, Alfredo can focus on coming up with new, innovative recipe ideas or building an app to sell his pizza online.
And when he's building that app, he'll have low upfront cost and the ability to reach customers around the world at the click of a button,
instead of having to maintain servers or hiring people to do it.

Let's put the benefits of cloud computing into technical terms
-----------------------------------------------------------------
1-The first term is high availability.A highly available system is one that operates continuously without failure.Meaning it's always up and running.
And when you design a system that's highly available, you design it to avoid loss of service by reducing and managing failures.

2-The next term you'll hear is elasticity.Now, when you hear this term,think about growing and shrinking like a rubber band
or pizza dough as it stretches. It's related to capacity.
For example, you provision servers and provision just simply means to set up,or create, or deploy.You provision servers
or you take away servers based on demand.You don't have to plan ahead of time how much capacity you'll need.
And as you're learning AWS,you'll hear a lot of services have the word elastic in their name.

3-Next,there is a term called agility.You'll hear that the cloud gives you increased agility.Well, AWS, they have a ton of services
that help you innovate faster and gives you a faster speed to market.

4-Durability is all about data and data protection.
Will your data be there tomorrow? Or will it be corrupted, missing, or in an unusable state? AWS actually guarantees durability.

Capital expenditures, CapEx, vs. operating expenses,  OpEx,have different implications for cost control.
 capital expenditures, or CapEx,  are upfront purchases toward fixed assets.So things like equipment, property, computers, and software
are all considered capital expenditures.

operating expenses are funds used to run day-to-day operations.So, things like research and development,employee salaries, rent, and marketing.

make sure you understand the 6 advantages of cloud computing
high availability,
elasticity,
agility,
and durability.
