cloud computing and deployment models.There are actually 3 different service models and you choose the model
based on your business requirements.

 AWS actually offers all 3 of these models.
------------------------------------------------
1-The first one is Infrastructure as a Service(Iaas).Think of this as the most basic fundamental building blocks that can be rented.
So a service like Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud, or EC2.
Think about it also in terms of web hosting where you pay a monthly subscription to have a hosting company serve up your website.

The next is Software as a Service, or SaaS.This is a complete product that is run and managed by the service or software provider.
So in AWS, think about a service like SageMaker,which is their machine learning service,and in the real world,
think about your email provider.So your personal email that you access through a web browser,that's a SaaS product.

And we have Platform as a Service.Now this is a cloud-based environment,typically used by developers
to build and deliver applications without having to install anything.On AWS, think of a service like Cloud9,
which is a developer service.In the real world,think about building a storefront website and a service provider giving you the tools to do that.

there are 3 cloud deployment models
---------------------------------------
1-the first one is called a private cloud or on-premises.This is your company's internal data center
and everything runs in your internal network,like your databases and your servers, etc.Now this deployment model
doesn't offer any of the advantages of cloud computing
that we just talked about,but there is an increased level of security and your infrastructure resources
aren't shared with other organizations using that virtualization that we talked about.

2-The next one is the public cloud.This is AWS.You aren't responsible for the physical hardware
and you gain all of the advantages of cloud computing like increased agility, you benefit from massive economies of scale,
no huge upfront investments, etc.

3-we have the hybrid cloud.Now this is a combination of both private and public cloud
and you may be thinking, "Why in the world "would anybody want to do that?"
I've seen architectures--and this is a picture of it--where companies keep highly sensitive data in their own private data center,
but the app that reads that data runs in AWS and they're able to talk to each other
using a service provided by AWS called Direct Connect.

3 models:
1-Infrastructure as a Service.Remember that's the basic building blocks that you can rent, like an EC2 instance.
2-Software as a Service.That is a complete product or application.
3-Platform as a Service.These are tools typically used by developers to build applications.

deployment:
1-private cloud.that's your internal data center. It's also called on-premises.
2-public cloud. That's AWS.
3-hybrid cloud.That's a combination of private and public.And the architecture that we reviewed included keeping sensitive data in the private cloud.
and the application reading that data in the public cloud,and the 2 talking to each other using Direct Connect.
