the AWS Global Infrastructure that's available to you.

you'll learn about Regions, Availability Zones, and edge locations. Alfredo's Pizza is going global thanks to the AWS Global Infrastructure.

**A Region:
--------------
is a physical location.For example, here in orange,we have the Northern Virginia Region and we have the Ohio Region.
Now, these 2 Regions fall within the US East geographic location.

AWS logically groups its Regions into larger geographical areas for ease of management.
So we looked at the US East geographical location.There's also US West that has several Regions.South America, Africa, Europe, and Asia Pacific.

Now, when deploying your applications,you want to select a Region that is closest to your users because it improves the user experience
so they'll see faster downloads and response times.You just don't randomly select Regions when you start deploying your applications.
So if all of your users lived in the Asia Pacific geographic location,then you would not pick Regions in South America
to deploy your applications to.

characteristics of Regions:

1-Each Region is spread out fully independent isolated from other Regions.
there's a flood or a tsunami or earthquake in one Region.The other Regions will not be impacted.
And because of this,sometimes it makes sense to deploy your code to multiple Regions.

2-Another characteristic is Regions are resource and service specific.So when you're in the AWS console,you'll see that you'll have to select a Region
before you start deploying your applications.

**Availability Zones:
-----------------------
What is an Availability Zone? It's 1 or more physically separated or isolated data centers.
And it actually contains the servers that you're renting and it's where you provision your resources
and deploy your applications.

Let's look at the Ohio Region.Remember, this is in the US East geographic location.

So within the Ohio Region,
there are actually 3 Availability Zones: 2a, 2b, and 2c.

And in Northern Virginia, there are actually 6 Availability Zones:
us-east-1a through us-east-1f.

Within the Northern Virginia Region there are 6 Availability Zones.
Let's look at Availability Zone 1a in this Availability Zone, there are 2 data centers.
Now, I have searched and searched

in an Availability Zone.
Let's look at 1b.1b actually has 4 data centers.
1c maybe has 3, 1d 2, 1e 3, and 1f. So this just gives you an idea.

Availability Zone has multiple data centers.
the characteristics of Availability Zones.
First, they're physically separated and they use different power grids.
they're isolated.
Now, they are connected among themselves within a single Region through low-latency links.
AZs are fault tolerant.Like I said, if 1 AZ goes out of service,the others should not be impacted
AZs allow for high availability.If you distribute your applications
across multiple Availability Zones and 1 zone fails,your application should still run
because it's running in another AZ.

edge locations:
-----------------
What is an edge location? you can just look at this map and see that there are way more edge locations
than Availability Zones and Regions.And you can think of an edge location like a mini data center,
but it's not used to launch resources like EC2 instances.
It's used to cache your content.And this is made possible through CloudFront.
So edge locations actually reduce latency and speeds up the delivery of your applications.

 what is latency?

Latency is basically the amount of time it takes for your website to load.So it's the time that passes
between a user request and the resulting response.Low latency is always a good thing
because it means your website is loading faster.
So whenever you hear the term high latency,just remember that is not a good thing,
because that means it takes a long time for your website to load.


Recap:
-------
a Region is a physical location in the world that contains Availability Zones.
So think of a Region like a collection of Availability Zones,and you should set up resources in Regions
closest to your users to improve the overall user experience.
And don't forget,most resources are tied to a specific Region.

Availability Zone, that's a collection of 1 or more data centers,and it contains the servers you're renting
and it's where you deploy your applications.And an Availability Zone is associated with 1 single Region.
So they don't span Regions.

edge locations.
is used to cache your content to speed up delivery.And this is made possible through Amazon CloudFront.
And the whole point of an edge location is to reduce latency.And you can think of it like a mini data center,
but it doesn't run your main infrastructure like EC2 instances.
It mainly caches static content.

Don't forget that Multi-AZ deployments provide high availability
and systems that are highly available are dependable and they continuously operate without failure.

And don't forget, an AZ has multiple data centers.It's a collection of data centers.

And a Region is a global construct and it has 2 or more Availability Zones.
And edge locations ensure low latency by placing content closer to your users.
And don't forget, there are more edge locations than Regions and Availability Zones.
