"Exploring Your AWS Account."
In AWS Management Console,which is the most popular way to provision and view resources in your AWS account.

the AWS Management Console is the number one most popular way to interact with your AWS resources.
It supplies an intuitive user interface that allows you to navigate to various services and provision resources in the AWS cloud.

If you're new to cloud or experimenting with a new service, the AWS Management Console might be the place to start.
The AWS console is also great for non-technical roles. If you just want visibility on the AWS resources
that exist in an AWS account, you'll probably be doing so through the Management Console.
And technical roles--If you're building things in the AWS cloud,there's a good chance you're doing it through the Management Console.

the root user.:
Your AWS account can have many users.You can invite other people to come and collaborate on work in a single AWS account.
But there is also one user to rule them all.The email that you use to initially create your AWS account will be associated with your root user.
This is the user that brought the AWS account into existence, and it's also the only userthat can completely delete the AWS account,
including all the resources that you've provisioned.
For that reason, it's very important to keep the root user secure.
It's best not to use the root user for day-to-day tasks in your AWS account, and it's highly suggested you protect your root user
with multi-factor authentication, which you can do from the IAM service.

AWS Console
You can see your most recently visited AWS services, as well as some Getting Started information.
The newest Console Home allows you to add and remove widgets, so you can put whatever you find the most useful
on your Console Home.If you wanted to explore all the services that AWS has to offer,
you can click in the upper left-hand here on the Services button.This opens up a huge menu containing
all the different categories of services AWS provides.

So if I were to click Compute here, you can see services like EC2, Lambda, and Lightsail.

you can use the search bar at the top to find a particular service I'm looking for.
In this case, I'll go to the service IAM, or Identity and Access Management.in there I have one major security recommendation,
and that's to add MFA for the root user. Because I'm not logged in as the root user,I can't take this action,
but I can alert my administrator and let them know that MFA should be added.This is also where you could add additional IAM users
to your AWS account.

if you wanted to navigate back to that main Console page, you would do so by clicking on the AWS icon
in the upper left-hand corner.So here, we can see our familiar Console Home with the widgets we've chosen.
Now, there is one more thing I wanted to show you

I'm going to search for the service, VPC, and I'll click here to go to VPC.One thing that will already be provisioned
in your AWS account will be a default VPC. This will include a VPC, 6 subnets,some route tables, and an internet gateway.
Now, don't worry, we're going to cover all of these things these things are provisioned by default.
When provisioning EC2 instances or other services that require a VPC,they will tend to default to this VPC
unless you create a separate one.
Another important note that can be a sticking point
for many people who are new to AWS is understanding Regions.When you're looking at your resources in the console,it's important to understand which Region you're operating in.
As you can see, I'm currently operating in the North Virginia Region, or us-east-1.
When I'm in us-east-1, only those resources I've provisioned in this Region will be visible to me.
If I wanted resources in multiple Regions,I'd have to navigate to that other Region,and then create resources there.
As you can see, there's also a default VPC in this Region,but it is a separate VPC.Now, I'm going to navigate back to us-east-1,
because that's where I want my resources to exist. That's the AWS Management Console.

the AWS Command Line Interface, or CLI:
This is another way to interact with your AWS resources, just like the console.
However, the big difference here is that you're sending commands which trigger APIs through your terminal.
For the most part, the CLI has all of the same features that exist in the AWS Management Console,
but sometimes, new features are available in the CLI before they develop the user interface in the console.
The CLI is also typically used by developers or other technical resources.
The CLI gives you something called programmatic access,meaning you can use code to define actions that take place in your AWS account.
You can also achieve this in another way.
Of course, there's the Command Line Interface,which allows you to manage AWS services from a terminal by sending commands,
but you can also make changes in your AWS account
in your application code by leveraging SDKs, or Software Development Kits.
Software Development Kits are packages that you can include in your applications' code base that allows them to make changes to your actual AWS account and the services within.
This is very powerful and requires pretty advanced technical knowledge.
For the purposes of this course,
you just need to understand that you can gain
programmatic access to your AWS resources through the CLI or Software Development Kits.

Recap:
----- 
The root user is automatically created when you open your account.You should always activate multi-factor authentication,and typically,
 you shouldn't use the root user for day-to-day operations.

The console is one way for you to access resources in your account.It's a visual point-and-click interface that makes provisioning AWS resources
really easy and accessible.

And the CLI... The CLI is one form of programmatic access that gives you powerful and fast control over the AWS resources in your account.


It's very important to understand what a root user is and how it's different from a typical user.You can add many, many users to your AWS account,
but there will always only be one root user. The root user has unlimited power to change your account settings,or even delete your account altogether.

It's also important to understand the CLI as an alternative to the Management Console.
